Total pages: 42

=== PAGE 1 ===
Code: AC-AR
Adopted: 7/21/21
Discrimination Complaint Procedure
Complaints regarding discrimination or harassment, on any basis protected by law, shall be processed in
accordance with the following procedures:
Step 1 Complaints may be oral or in writing and should be filed with the administrator/principal. Any
staff member that receives a written or oral complaint shall report the complaint to the
administrator/principal. Oral complaints received shall be reduced to writing by the staff
member receiving the complaint and confirmed with the person making the complaint
immediately.
The administrator/principal or a designee shall investigate and determine the action to be
taken, if any, and reply in writing to the complainant within 10 school days of receipt of the
complaint.
If the complainant is not satisfied with a decision reached in this step by the
administrator/principal, the complainant may submit an appeal to the Board as outlined in
Step 3.
Step 2 If the complainant wishes to appeal the decision of the administrator’s/principal’s designee,
the complainant may submit a written appeal to the administrator/principal within five school
days after receipt of the designee’s response to the complaint.
The administrator/principal shall review the designee’s decision within five school days and
may meet with all parties involved. The administrator/principal will review the merits of the
complaint and the designee’s decision. The administrator/principal will respond in writing to
the complainant within 10 school days.
Step 3 If the complainant is not satisfied with the decision of the administrator/principal, a written
appeal may be filed with the HCCS Board (board@hopeccs.org) within five school days of
receipt of the administrator/principal’s response in Step 2. The Board may decide to hear or
deny the request for appeal at a Board meeting. If the Board decides to hear the appeal, the
Board may meet with the concerned parties and their representative at the next regular or
special Board meeting. The Board’s decision will address each allegation in the complaint and
contain the reasons for the Board’s decision. A copy of the Board’s decision shall be sent to
the complainant in writing within 10 days of this meeting.
If the Board decides not to hear the appeal the administrator/principal’s decision is final.
If the director of operations is the subject of the complaint, the complaint should be referred to the
administrator/principal and start at step 2. If the administrator/principal is the subject of the complaint the
individual may start at Step 3 and file a complaint with the Board chair. The Board may refer the
investigation to a third party.
Complaints against the Board as a whole or against an individual Board member may start at Step 3,
should be submitted to the Board chair, and may be referred to counsel. Complaints against the Board
Discrimination Complaint Procedure – AC-AR
1-3

=== PAGE 2 ===
chair may start at Step 3 and should be referred directly to the HCCS Board (board@hopeccs.org). The
Board may refer the investigation to a third party.
Timelines may be extended based upon mutual consent of the HCCS and the complainant in writing.
Appeal Process
A decision reached by this HCCS board for a complaint that alleges a violation of OAR 581-021-0047
(Prohibition against using Native American mascots) may be appealed to Oregon Department of Education
(ODE) under OAR 581-002-0001 - 581-002-0023.
A final decision reached by the HCCS board for a complaint that alleges a violation of Oregon Revised
Statute (ORS) 659.850 or Oregon Administrative Rule (OAR) 581-021-0045 or OAR 581-021-0046
(Discrimination), is recognized as the final decision regarding this complaint by the Board of the
Beaverton School District. A final decision may be appealed to ODE under OAR 581-002-0001 - 581-002-
0023.
Discrimination Complaint Procedure – AC-AR
2-3

=== PAGE 3 ===
Hope Chinese Charter School
DISCRIMINATION COMPLAINT FORM
Name of Person Filing Complaint Date School or Activity
Student/Parent □ Employee □ Job applicant □ Other □
Subject of complaint:
 Race  Marital status  Income level
 Color  Familial status  Athletic ability
 Religion  Economic status  Proficiency in English
 Sex  Veterans’ status language
 National or ethnic origin  Age  Discriminatory use of a
 Mental or physical  Sexual orientation Native American mascot
disability  Pregnancy  Other
Specific complaint: (Please provide detailed information including names, dates, places, activities and
results of discussion.)
Who should we talk to and what evidence should we consider?
Suggested solution/resolution/outcome:
This complaint form should be mailed or submitted to the administrator/principal.
Direct complaints related to educational programs and services may be made to the U.S. Department of
Education, Office for Civil Rights. Direct complaints related to employment may be filed with the Oregon
Bureau of Labor and Industries, Civil Rights Division or the U.S. Department of Labor, Equal
Employment Opportunities Commission.
Discrimination Complaint Procedure – AC-AR
3-3

=== PAGE 4 ===
Code: ACA-AR
Revised/Reviewed: 7/21/21
ADA Grievance Procedure
The compliance officer is responsible for coordinating HCCS’s efforts to comply with the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 and the Americans with Disabilities Act Amendments Act of 2008 (“ADA”). The
compliance officer shall be a neutral party having had no involvement in the complaint presented.
Any complaint shall be presented in writing to the compliance officer or the administrator/principal within
180 days from date of alleged discrimination. It must include the following:
• The name and address of the individual or the representative filing the complaint;
• The description of the alleged discriminatory action in sufficient detail to inform HCCS of the nature
and date of the alleged violation;
• A signature by the complainant or by someone authorized to do so on the complainant’s behalf;
• The identification (by name, if possible) of the alleged victims of the discrimination for any
complaint filed on behalf of classes or third parties.
Step 1 The compliance officer shall thoroughly investigate the complaint, notify the person who has
been accused of discriminating, permit a response to the allegation and arrange a meeting to
discuss the complaint with all concerned parties within 10 working days after receipt of the
written complaint, if deemed necessary. The compliance officer shall give a written answer to
the complainant within 15 working days after receipt of the written complaint.
Step 2 If the complainant is not satisfied with the answer of the compliance officer, the complainant
may submit a written appeal to the administrator/principal indicating with particularity the
nature of disagreement with the answer and reason underlying such disagreement. Such appeal
must be filed within 10 working days after receipt of the compliance officer’s answer. The
administrator/principal shall arrange a meeting with the complainant and other affected parties,
if requested by the complainant, at a mutually agreeable time to discuss the appeal.
The administrator/principal shall give a written answer to the complainant’s appeal within 10
working days.
Step 3 If the complainant is not satisfied with the answer, an appeal to HCCS Board may be filed
within 10 working days after receipt of the Step 3 answer. The Board shall, within 20 working
days, conduct a hearing at which the complainant shall be given an opportunity to present the
complaint. The Board shall give a written answer to the complainant within 10 working days
following completion of the hearing.
If the complainant is not satisfied with the decision of the HCCS Board, a complaint may be filed with the
Coordination and Review Section, Civil Rights Division, U.S. Department of Justice (student complaints)
or the U.S. Department of Labor, Equal Employment Opportunity Commission or Oregon Bureau of
Labor and Industries (employment complaints).
Individuals may initiate complaint procedures and/or civil actions with or without first complying with
local complaint procedures.
ADA Grievance Procedure – ACA-AR
1-1

=== PAGE 5 ===
Code: ACA
Adopted: 7/21/21
Americans with Disabilities Act
HCCS, in compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 and the Americans with
Disabilities Act Amendment Act of 2008 (“ADA”), is committed to maintaining employment practices,
services, programs and activities that provide equity to qualified individuals with disabilities.
HCCS will provide reasonable accommodations for the known disabilities, subject to the ADA, of all
applicants and current employees in all employment application procedures; hiring, advancement or
discharge; employee compensation; job training; other terms, conditions and privileges of employment
upon request and advance notice.
A reasonable accommodation must not present an undue hardship for HCCS, be unduly costly, extensive
or disruptive; nor present a direct threat to the health or safety of the individual or others in the workplace.
HCCS services, programs and activities will be accessible and usable by qualified individuals with
disabilities, consistent with Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and the ADA. Accessibility may
be achieved through nonstructural as well as structural methods.
In order to achieve equal access, HCCS will make available appropriate auxiliary aids and services that
promote effective communications. Primary consideration will be given to the request of individuals with
disabilities in the selection of appropriate aids and services. Final determination will be made by the
Board. Auxiliary aids and services determinations will be based on availability, effectiveness and financial
or administrative burden to HCCS.
The HCCS Board directs the administrator/principal to develop and implement an appropriate plan that
provides for HCCS compliance with ADA, including the appointment of an ADA compliance officer and
the establishment of a process for the investigation and prompt and equitable resolution of any complaint
regarding noncompliance.
Retaliation is prohibited against anyone who files a complaint of discrimination, participates in an Office
of Federal Contract Compliance Program proceeding or otherwise opposes discrimination federal or
state laws.
END OF POLICY
Americans with Disabilities Act – ACA
1-2

=== PAGE 6 ===
Legal Reference(s):
Rehabilitation Act of 1973, 29 U.S.C. §§ 503, 791, 793-794 (2012).
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101-12213; 29 C.F.R. Part 1630 (2006); 28 C.F.R. Part 35 (2006).
Chevron U.S.A. Inc. v. Echazabal, 536 U.S. 73 (2002).
Americans with Disabilities Act Amendments Act of 2008.
Cross Reference(s):
AC - Nondiscrimination
BD/BDA - Board Meetings
GAB - Job Descriptions
GBA - Equal Employment Opportunity
GBEA - Workplace Harassment
JB - Equal Educational Opportunity
Americans with Disabilities Act – ACA
2-2

=== PAGE 7 ===
Code: ACB-AR
Revised/Reviewed: 12/16/20
Bias Incident Complaint Procedure
The term “bias incident” is defined in policy. Persons impacted by a bias incident shall be defined broadly
to include individuals at whom an incident was directed as well as students in the larger school community
likely to be impacted by the incident.1
Step 1: When a staff member learns of a potential bias incident, the staff member will prioritize the
safety and well-being of all persons impacted and without unreasonable delay report the
incident to the school principal or administrator.
Step 2: The school principal/administrator shall acknowledge receipt of the complaint and investigate
any complaint of a bias incident. Responding staff will recognize the experience of all persons
impacted, acknowledge the impact, commit to taking immediate action, and prevent further
harm against those persons impacted from taking place. Redirection procedures, if any, will
include:
● Educational components that address the history and impact of hate;
● Procedural components to ensure the safety, healing, and agency of those impacted by
hate;
● Accountability and transformation for people who cause harm; and
● Transformation of the conditions that perpetuated the harm.
The school principal/administrator must consider whether the behavior implicates other public
charter school policies or civil rights laws, and if so, respond accordingly.
The school principal/administrator will determine responsibility within 10 days of receiving
the complaint.
All persons impacted will be provided with information relating to the investigation and the
outcome of the investigation. At a minimum, the information provided must include:
● That an investigation has been initiated;
● When the investigation has been completed;
● The findings of the investigation and the final determination based on those findings;
and
1 The term “complainant” in this administrative regulation includes persons filing formal complaints and persons reporting bias
incidents, regardless of whether the complainant is a victim. Similarly, the term “complaint” includes any report, information or
complaint.
Bias Incident Complaint Procedure – ACB-AR
1-2

=== PAGE 8 ===
● Actions taken with the person or persons who committed the harassing behavior to
remedy the behavior and prevent reoccurrence when the actions relate directly to a
person impacted by the event.
If any of the above information cannot be shared, a citation to the law prohibiting release and
an explanation of how that law applies to the current situation will be provided.2
Step 3: If the complainant or respondent is not satisfied with the decision of the school
principal/administrator, a written appeal may be filed with the Board within five school days
of receipt of the school principal/administrator’s response to Step 2. The Board may decide to
hear or deny the request for appeal at a Board meeting. The Board may use an executive
session if the subject matter qualifies under Oregon law. If the Board decides to hear the
appeal, the Board may meet with the concerned parties and their representative at the next
regular or special Board meeting. A copy of the Board’s final decision shall be sent to the
complainant in writing within 30 days of this meeting.
The Board will ensure that the requirements in Steps 1 and 2 (redirection procedures, notice,
etc.) are continued to be met through Step 3, as appropriate.
Complaints can be filed with or communicated directly to the school principal/administrator, in which case
Step 1 will be skipped. Complaints against the school principal/school principal can be directed to the
Board and will begin at Step 3. Complaints against the director of operations can be directed to the Board
and will begin at Step 3. Complaints against a Board member(s) can be directed to the Board and will
begin at Step 3. If complaints begin later than Step 1, the individuals reviewing the complaint will ensure
that all requirements are met.
The complainant, or a parent or guardian of a student who attends HCCS, or a student, is not satisfied after
exhausting local complaint procedures, HCCS fails to render a written decision within 30 days of
submission of the complaint at any step or HCCS fails to resolve the complaint within 90 days of the
initial filing of the complaint, may appeal3 HCCS’s final decision to the Deputy Superintendent of Public
Instruction under Oregon Administrative Rules (OAR) 581-002-0001 – 581-002-0023.
Complaints may also be filed directly with the U.S. Department of Education Office for Civil Rights.4
HCCS administration will develop and implement instructional materials to ensure that all school
employees and staff are made aware of this procedure and related practices. The materials will include
reporting procedures, educational processes, and possible consequences.
2 Refer to policies JOA - Directory Information and JOB - Personally Identifiable Information and public charter school legal
counsel for guidance in these situations. Possible laws include, but are not limited to, Title 34 C.F.R. § 99.31 and ORS 342.850.
3 An appeal must meet the criteria found in OAR 581-002-0005(1)(a).
4 Complaints must meet criteria as established by law. For more information, visit
http://www.ed.gov/about/offices/list/ocr/complaintintro.html
Bias Incident Complaint Procedure – ACB-AR
2-2

=== PAGE 9 ===
Code: ACB
Adopted: 12/16/20
All Students Belong
Hope Chinese Charter School (HCCS) is committed to our mission: Educating for Global Fluency by
developing Chinese & English dual-language skills, nurturing cultural adaptability and inspiring
excellence for a positive impact in our world. HCCS recognizes and appreciates the value and contribution
of every human being, and pledges to encourage and embrace all aspects of diversity, equity, and
inclusion. We also recognize and challenge the historical, structural, and systematic forms of racism that
continue to threaten the lives of people of color and endanger the communities in which they live.
All students are entitled to a high quality educational experience, free from discrimination or harassment
based on perceived race, color, religion, gender identity, sexual orientation, disability or national origin.
All employees are entitled to work in an environment that is free from discrimination or harassment based
on perceived race, color, religion, gender identity, sexual orientation, disability or national origin.
All visitors are entitled to participate in an environment that is free from discrimination or harassment
based on perceived race, color, religion, gender identity, sexual orientation, disability or national origin.
“Bias incident” means a person’s hostile expression of animus toward another person, relating to the other
person’s perceived race, color, religion, gender identity, sexual orientation, disability or national origin, of
which criminal investigation or prosecution is impossible or inappropriate. Bias incidents may include
derogatory language or behavior directed at or about any of the preceding demographic groups.
“Symbol of hate” means a symbol, image, or object that expresses animus on the basis of race, color,
religion, gender identity, sexual orientation, disability or national origin including, the noose, swastika, or
confederate flag1, and whose display:
1. Is reasonably likely to cause a substantial disruption of or material interference with school
activities; or
2. Is reasonably likely to interfere with the rights of students by denying them full access to the
services, activities, and opportunities offered by a school.
HCCS prohibits the use or display of any symbols of hate on school grounds or in any school-sponsored
program, service, school or activity that is funded in whole or in part by monies appropriated by the
Oregon Legislative Assembly, except where used in teaching curriculum that is aligned to the Oregon
State Standards.
1 While commonly referred to as the “confederate flag,” the official name of the prohibited flag is the Battle Flag of the Armies
of Northern Virginia.
All Students Belong – ACB
1-2

=== PAGE 10 ===
In responding to the use of any symbols of hate, HCCS will use non-disciplinary remedial action whenever
appropriate.
HCCS prohibits retaliation against an individual because that person has filed a charge, testified, assisted
or participated in an investigation, proceeding or hearing; and further prohibits anyone from coercing,
intimidating, threatening or interfering with an individual for exercising any rights guaranteed under state
and federal law.
Nothing in this policy is intended to interfere with the lawful use of HCCS facilities pursuant to a lease or
license.
HCCS will use administrative regulation ACB-AR - Bias Incident Complaint Procedure to process reports
or complaints of bias incidents.
END OF POLICY
Legal Reference(s):
ORS 659.850 OAR 581-002-0005 OAR 581-022-2370
ORS 659.852 OAR 581-022-2312
Tinker v. Des Moines Indep. Cmty. Sch. Dist., 393 U.S. 503 (1969).
Dariano v. Morgan Hill Unified Sch. Dist., 767 F.3d 764 (9th Cir. 2014).
State v. Robertson, 293 Or. 402 (1982).
Cross Reference(s):
AC - Nondiscrimination
GBEA - Workplace Harassment
GBNA - Hazing, Harassment, Intimidation, Bullying, Menacing, or Cyberbullying – Staff
GBN/JBA - Sexual Harassment
JBA/GBN - Sexual Harassment
JFCF - Hazing, Harassment, Intimidation, Bullying, Menacing, Cyberbullying, Teen Dating Violence, or Domestic Violence –
Student
All Students Belong – ACB
2-2

=== PAGE 11 ===
Code: AC
Adopted: 7/21/21
Nondiscrimination
HCCS prohibits discrimination and harassment on any basis protected by law, including but not limited to,
an individual’s perceived or actual race1, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation2, national or ethnic origin,
marital status, age, mental or physical disability, pregnancy, familial status, economic status, or veterans’
status, or because of the perceived or actual race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, national or ethnic
origin, marital status, age, mental or physical disability, pregnancy, familial status, economic status, or
veterans’ status of any other persons with whom the individual associates.
HCCS may not limit student admission based on ethnicity, national origin, race, religion, disability, sex,
sexual orientation, income level, proficiency in English language, whether a student has an individualized
education program (IEP) or the terms of that IEP, or athletic ability except as authorized under Oregon
Revised Statute (ORS) 338.125(3)(d). HCCS may limit admission to students within a given grade level.
HCCS prohibits discrimination and harassment in, but not limited to: employment, assignment and
promotion of personnel; educational opportunities and services offered students; student assignment to the
school and classes; student discipline; location and use of facilities; educational offerings and materials;
and accommodating the public at public meetings.
HCCS prohibits retaliation and discrimination against an individual who has opposed any discrimination
act or practice or because that person has filed a charge, testified, assisted or participated in an
investigation, proceeding or hearing, and further prohibits anyone from coercing, intimidating, threatening
or interfering with an individual for exercising the rights guaranteed under state and federal law.
The HCCS Board encourages staff to improve human relations within the school, to respect all individuals,
and to establish channels through which school community members can communicate their concerns to
HCCS administration and the HCCS Board.
The administrator/principal shall appoint individuals at HCCS to contact on issues concerning the
Americans with Disabilities Act, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act, Titles VI and VII of the Civil
Rights Act, Title IX of the Education Amendments Act, and other civil rights or discrimination issues, and
notify students, parents, and employees with their names, office addresses, and phone numbers.
1 Includes discriminatory use of a Native American mascot pursuant to OAR 581-021-0047.
2 “Sexual orientation” means an individual’s actual or perceived heterosexuality, homosexuality, bisexuality or gender identity,
regardless of whether the individual’s gender identity, appearance, expression or behavior differs from that traditionally
associated with the individual’s sex at birth.
Nondiscrimination – AC
1-2

=== PAGE 12 ===
The HCCS Board will adopt and HCCS will publish complaint procedures providing for prompt and
equitable resolution of complaints from students, employees, and the public, and such procedures will be
available at the HCCS’s school office and available on the home page of the website.
END OF POLICY
Legal Reference(s):
ORS 174.100 ORS 659.870 ORS 659A.309
ORS 192.630 ORS 659A.003 ORS 659A.321
ORS 326.051(1)(e) ORS 659A.006 ORS 659A.409
ORS 338.115 ORS 659A.009
ORS 338.125(2)-(3) ORS 659A.029 OAR 581-021-0045
ORS 408.230 ORS 659A.030 OAR 581-021-0046
ORS 659.805 ORS 659A.040 OAR 581-021-0047
ORS 659.815 ORS 659A.103 - 659A.145 OAR 839-003
ORS 659.850 - 659.860 ORS 659A.230 - 659A.233
ORS 659.865 ORS 659A.236
Age Discrimination Act of 1975, 42 U.S.C. §§ 6101-6107 (2018).
Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, 29 U.S.C. §§ 621-633 (2018); 29 C.F.R Part 1626 (2019).
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101-12133 (2012); 29 C.F.R. Part 1630 (2019); 28 C.F.R. Part 35
(2019).
Equal Pay Act of 1963, 29 U.S.C. § 206(d) (2018).
Rehabilitation Act of 1973, 29 U.S.C. §§ 791, 793-794 (2018); 34 C.F.R. Part 104 (2019).
Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, 20 U.S.C. §§ 1681-1683 (2018); Nondiscrimination on the Basis of Sex in
Education Programs or Activities Receiving Federal Financial Assistance, 34 C.F.R. Part 106 (2019).
Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. § 2000d (2012); 28 C.F.R. §§ 42.101-42.106 (2019).
Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. § 2000e (2012); 29 C.F.R. § 1601 (2019).
Wygant v. Jackson Bd. of Educ., 476 U.S. 267 (1989).
The Vietnam Era Veterans’ Readjustment Assistance Act of 1974, 38 U.S.C. § 4212 (2018).
Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act of 2008, 42 U.S.C. § 2000ff-1 (2012); 29 C.F.R. Part 1635 (2019).
Cross Reference(s):
ACA - Americans with Disabilities Act
ACB - All Students Belong
GBA - Equal Employment Opportunity
GBEA - Workplace Harassment
JB - Equal Educational Opportunity
KL - Public Complaints
Nondiscrimination – AC
2-2

=== PAGE 13 ===
Code: BBAA
Adopted: 7/21/21
Individual Board Member’s Authority and Responsibilities
An individual HCCS Board member exercises the authority and responsibility of the board member’s
position when the HCCS Board is in legal session only.
A HCCS Board member has the authority to act in the name of the HCCS Board when authorized by a
specific Board motion. The affirmative vote of the majority of the Board members present is required to
transact any business. The act of a majority of the Board members present in person at a meeting at which
a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board of directors, unless the act of a greater number is required
by law or by the HCCS bylaws.
A HCCS Board member has the right to express personal opinions. When expressing such opinions in
public, the Board member must clearly identify the opinions as their own.
Members will be knowledgeable of information requested through Board action, supplied by the
administrator/principal, gained through attendance at HCCS activities and through professional HCCS
Board activities.
Members of the HCCS Board will adhere to the following in carrying out the responsibilities of
membership:
1. Requests for Information
Any individual Board member who desires a copy of an existing written report or survey prepared
by the school administrative staff will make such a request to the administrator/principal. A copy of
the material may be made available to each member of the HCCS Board. Requests for the generation
of reports or information, which requires additional expense to the school, must be submitted to the
Board for consideration.
2. Requests for Legal Opinions
A request for a legal opinion by a HCCS Board member, must be approved by a majority vote of the
HCCS Board before the request is made to legal counsel. If the legal opinion sought involves the
administrator’s/principal’s employment or performance, the request should be made to the Board
chair. Legal counsel is responsible to the HCCS Board.
3. Action on Complaints or Requests Made to Board Members
When HCCS Board members receive complaints or requests for action from staff, students or
members of the public, the Board members will direct the staff, students and members of the public
Individual Board Member’s Authority and Responsibilities – BBAA
1-2

=== PAGE 14 ===
to the complaint policy Board policy KL - Public Complaints. Such information will be conveyed to
the administrator/principal.
4. Board Member’s Relationship to Administration
Individual HCCS Board members will be informed about the school’s educational program, may
visit the school or other school facilities to gain information, and may request information from the
administrator/principal. No individual Board member may direct the administrator/principal to
action without Board authorization. Board members will not intervene in the administration of the
school.
5. Contracts or Agreements
All contracts of the HCCS must be approved by the HCCS Board, or as delegated to the
administrator/principal, before an order can be drawn for payment. If a contract is made without
authority of the Board, the individual making such contract shall be personally liable.
END OF POLICY
Legal Reference(s):
ORS 338.115(2)
Cross Reference(s):
BHD - Board Member Compensation and Expense Reimbursement
Individual Board Member’s Authority and Responsibilities – BBAA
2-2

=== PAGE 15 ===
Code: BBA
Adopted: 7/21/21
Board Powers and Duties
HCCS by-laws delegate to the HCCS Board responsibility for the conduct and governance of programs
and services in HCCS. The general powers granted to the Board are:
1. Legislative or Rule-Making Authority
In regular or special public meetings, after open discussion and after members’ votes are recorded,
the HCCS Board will establish rules or policy to govern the conduct of its members and the
proceedings of the Board.
The Board shall establish policies for governing the programs and services of HCCS consistent with
State Board of Education rules and with local, state and federal laws, as applicable.
The Board is responsible for providing adequate and direct means for keeping informed about the
needs and wishes of the public and for keeping local community patrons informed about HCCS.
2. Judicial Authority
As provided by law, policy or contract, the HCCS Board acts as a fact-finding body or a court of
appeal for staff members, students and the public when issues involve Board policies or agreements
and their implementation, and when the Board must determine the rights, duties or obligations of
those who address the Board.
3. Executive/Administrative Authority
The HCCS Board will appoint an administrator/principal delegated to establish administrative
regulations to implement Board policy and goals. The Board will evaluate the
administrator’s/principal’s performance.
The HCCS Board may establish academic and financial goals for HCCS and evaluate the
administrator’s/principal’s implementation of those goals.
The HCCS Board will oversee HCCS’s financial affairs by authorizing, appropriating and adopting
budgets as allowed by law, to provide for program operation and maintenance or acquisition of
HCCS property.
The HCCS Board will authorize the administrator/principal to approve payment on all contracts and
business transactions of HCCS in accordance with HCCS board policies and charter agreement on
purchasing and budget requirements. The HCCS Board will provide for an annual audit of HCCS’s
assets.
Board Powers and Duties – BBA
1-2

=== PAGE 16 ===
The HCCS Board will establish salaries and salary schedules, other terms and conditions of
employment, and personnel policies for HCCS employees.
The HCCS Board will establish the days of the year and the hours of the day when school and its
programs will be in session.
END OF POLICY
Legal Reference(s):
ORS 192.630 ORS 338.115(2) ORS 339.351 to -339.364
ORS 243.656 ORS Chapter 339 ORS 339.370 to -339.400
ORS Chapters 279A, 279B and 279C ORS 339.250 ORS 339.866 to -339.873
ORS 294.305 to -294.565 ORS 339.315 to -339.327 ORS 339.883 to -339.885
Cross Reference(s):
DJ - Purchasing
Board Powers and Duties – BBA
2-2

=== PAGE 17 ===
Code: BBFA
Adopted: 7/21/21
Board Member Ethics and Conflicts of Interest
No HCCS Board member will use the official position or office of HCCS Board member to obtain
personal financial benefit or to avoid financial detriment for self, relatives or household members, or for
any business with which the Board member, a household member or a relative is associated.
This prohibition does not apply to any part of an official compensation package, honorarium allowed by
Oregon Revised Statute (ORS) 244.042, reimbursement of expenses, or unsolicited awards of professional
achievement. Further, this prohibition does not apply to gifts from one without a legislative or
administrative interest. Nor does it apply if the gift is under the annual $50 gift limit from one who has a
legislative or administrative interest in any matter subject to the decision or vote of the Board member.
HCCS-provided meals at board meetings are acceptable under the reimbursement of expenses exception.
I. Conflicts of Interest
“Business” means any corporation, partnership, proprietorship, enterprise, association, franchise, firm,
organization, self-employed individual or any legal entity operated for economic gain. This definition
excludes any income-producing tax exempt 501(c) not-for-profit corporation with which a public official
or a relative of the public official is associated only as a member or board director or in a non-
remunerative capacity.
“Business with which a Board member or relative is associated” means any private business or closely
held corporation of which a Board member or relative is a director, officer, owner, employee or agent or
any private business or closely held corporation in which a Board member or relative owns or has owned
stock, another form of equity interest, stock options or debt instruments worth $1,000 or more at any point
in the preceding year; any publicly held corporation in which a Board member or relative owns or has
owned $100,000 or more in stock or another form of equity interest, stock options or debt instruments at
any point in the preceding calendar year; or any publicly held corporation of which a Board member or
relative is a director or officer.
“Relative” means: the Board member’s spouse1, parent, step-parent, child, sibling, step-sibling, son-in-law
or daughter-in-law of the Board member; or the parent, step-parent, child, sibling, step-sibling, son-in-law
or daughter-in-law of the spouse of the Board member. Relative also includes any individual for whom the
Board member has a legal support obligation, whose employment provides benefits2 to the Board member,
or who receives any benefit from the Board member’s public position.
1 The term spouse includes domestic partner.
2 Examples of benefits may include, but not be limited to, elements of an official compensation package including benefits such
as insurance, tuition or retirement allotments.
Board Member Ethics and Conflicts of Interest – BBFA
1-6

=== PAGE 18 ===
“Member of the household” means any person who resides with the public official.
No Board member will solicit or receive, either directly or indirectly, any pledge or promise of future
employment based on any understanding that the Board member’s vote, official action or judgment would
be thereby influenced.
No Board member will attempt to use or use for personal gain any confidential information gained through
their official position or association with HCCS. A Board member will respect individuals’ privacy rights
when dealing with confidential information gained through association with HCCS.
If a Board member participates in the authorization of a public contract, the Board member may not have a
direct beneficial financial interest in that public contract for two years after the date the contract was
authorized.
Individual Board members and the HCCS Board as a public entity are bound by the ethics laws for public
officials as stated in Oregon law.
Potential Conflict of Interest
“Potential conflict of interest” means any action or any decision or recommendation by a Board member
that could result in a financial benefit or detriment for self or relatives or for a business with which the
Board member or relatives are associated, unless otherwise provided by law.
A Board member must publicly declare a potential conflict of interest. A Board member may, after
declaring a potential conflict of interest, either vote or abstain on the issue. Abstaining from a vote does
not meet the legal requirement of publicly stating a potential conflict.
Actual Conflict of Interest
“Actual conflict of interest” means any action or any decision or recommendation taken by a Board
member that would result in a financial benefit or detriment to self or relatives or for any business with
which the Board member or relatives are associated, unless otherwise provided by law.
A Board member must publicly declare an actual conflict of interest. The Board member may not vote
lawfully if an actual conflict of interest exists unless a vote is needed to meet a minimum requirement of
votes to take official action. Such a vote does not allow the Board member to participate in any discussion
or debate on the issue out of which an actual conflict arises.
II. Gifts
Board members are public officials and therefore will not solicit or accept a gift or gifts with an aggregate
value in excess of $50 from any single source in a calendar year that has a legislative or administrative
interest in any matter subject to the decision or vote of the Board member. All gift related provisions apply
to the Board member, their relatives, and members of their household. The $50 gift limit applies separately
to the Board member, and to the Board member’s relatives or members of their household, meaning that
the Board member, each member of their household and relative can accept up to $50 each from the same
source/gift giver. “Gift” means something of economic value given to a Board member without valuable
consideration of equivalent value, which is not extended to others who are not public officials on the same
terms and conditions.
Board Member Ethics and Conflicts of Interest – BBFA
2-6

=== PAGE 19 ===
“Relative” means: the spouse3, parent, step-parent, child, sibling, step-sibling, son-in-law or daughter-in-
law of the Board member; or the parent, step-parent, child, sibling, step-sibling, son-in-law or daughter-in-
law of the spouse of the Board member. Relative also includes any individual for whom the Board member
has a legal support obligation, whose employment provides benefits4 to the Board member, or who
receives any benefit from the Board member’s public employment.
“Member of the household” means any person who resides with the Board member.
Determining the Source of Gifts
Board members should not accept gifts in any amount without obtaining information from the gift giver as
to who is the source of the gift. It is the Board member’s personal responsibility to ensure that no single
source provides gifts exceeding an aggregate value of $50 in a calendar year, if the source has a legislative
or administrative interest in any matter subject to the decision or vote of the Board member. If the giver
does not have a legislative/administrative interest, the ethics rules on gifts do not apply and the Board
member need not keep track of it, although they are advised to do so anyway in case of a later dispute.
Determining Legislative and Administrative Interest
A legislative or administrative interest means an economic interest distinct from that of the general public,
in any action subject to the decision or vote of a person acting in the capacity of a Board member. For
example, everyone within a county has a general interest in the fire department, but the person who sells
the uniforms to the fire department has a legislative/administrative interest in the fire department that is
distinct from the general public.
Determining the Value of Gifts
The fair market value of the merchandise, goods, or services received will be used to determine benefit or
value.
“Fair market value” is the dollar amount goods or services would bring if offered for sale by a person who
desired, but was not obligated, to sell and purchased by one who is willing, but not obligated, to buy. Any
portion of the price that was donated to charity, however, does not count toward the fair market value of
the gift if the Board member does not claim the charitable contribution on personal tax returns. Below are
acceptable ways to calculate the fair market value of a gift:
1. In calculating the per person cost at receptions or meals the payor of the Board member’s admission
or meal will include all costs other than any amount donated to a charity.
For example, a person with a legislative or administrative interest buys a table for a charitable dinner
at $100 per person. If the cost of the meal was $25 and the amount donated to charity was $75, the
benefit conferred on the Board member is $25. This example requires that the Board member does
not claim the charitable contribution on personal tax returns.
3 Ibid. p. 1
4 Ibid. p. 1
Board Member Ethics and Conflicts of Interest – BBFA
3-6

=== PAGE 20 ===
2. For receptions and meals with multiple attendees, but with no price established to attend, the source
of the Board member’s meal or reception will use reasonable methods to determine the per person
value or benefit conferred. The following examples are deemed reasonable methods of calculating
value or benefit conferred:
a. The source divides the amount spent on food, beverage and other costs (other than charitable
contributions) by the number of persons whom the payor reasonably expects to attend the
reception or dinner;
b. The source divides the amount spent on food, beverage and other costs (other than charitable
contributions) by the number of persons who actually attend the reception or dinner; or
c. The source calculates the actual amount spent on the Board member.
3. Upon request by the Board member, the source will give notice of the value of the merchandise,
goods, or services received.
4. Attendance at receptions where the food or beverage is provided as an incidental part of the
reception is permitted without regard to the fair market value of the food and beverage provided.
Value of Unsolicited Tokens or Awards: Resale Value
Board members may accept unsolicited tokens or awards that are engraved or are otherwise personalized
items. Such items are deemed to have a resale value under $25 (even if the personalized item cost the
source more than $50), unless the personalized item is made from gold or some other valuable material
that would have value over $25 as a raw material.
Entertainment
Board members may not solicit or accept any gifts of entertainment over $50 in value from any single
source in a calendar year that has a legislative or administrative interest in any matter subject to the
decision or vote of the Board member unless:
1. The entertainment is incidental to the main purpose of another event (i.e. a band playing at a
reception). Entertainment that involves personal participation is not incidental to another event (such
as a golf tournament at a conference); or
2. The Board member is acting in their official capacity for a ceremonial purpose.
Entertainment is ceremonial when a Board member appears at an entertainment event for a
“ceremonial purpose” at the invitation of the source of the entertainment who requests the presence
of the Board member at a special occasion associated with the entertainment. Examples of an
appearance by a Board member at an entertainment event for a ceremonial purpose include throwing
the first pitch at a baseball game, appearing in a parade and ribbon cutting for an opening ceremony.
Exceptions
The following are exceptions to the ethics rules on gifts:
1. Campaign contributions are not considered gifts under the ethics rules;
Board Member Ethics and Conflicts of Interest – BBFA
4-6

=== PAGE 21 ===
2. Gifts from “relatives” and “members of the household” to the Board member are permitted in an
unlimited amount; they are not considered gifts under the ethics rules;
3. Informational or program material, publications, or subscriptions related to the recipient’s
performance of official duties;
4. Contributions made to a legal expense trust fund if certain requirements are met;
5. Food, lodging, and travel generally count toward the $50 aggregate amount per year from a single
source with a legislative/administrative interest, with the following exceptions:
a. Organized Planned Events. Board members are permitted to accept payment for travel
conducted in the Board member’s official capacity, for certain limited purposes:
(1) Reasonable expenses (i.e., food, lodging, travel, fees) for attendance at a convention,
fact-finding mission or trip, or other meeting do not count toward the $50 aggregate
amount IF:
(a) The Board member is scheduled to deliver a speech, make a presentation,
participate on a panel, or represent HCCS; AND
(i) The giver is a unit of a:
1) Federal, state, or local government;
2) An Oregon or federally recognized Native American Tribe; OR
3) Nonprofit corporation.
(b) The Board member is representing HCCS:
(i) On an officially sanctioned trade-promotion or fact-finding mission; OR
(ii) Officially designated negotiations or economic development activities where
receipt of the expenses is approved in advance by the Board.
(2) The purpose of this exception is to allow Board members to attend organized, planned
events and engage with the members of organizations by speaking or answering
questions, participating in panel discussions or otherwise formally discussing matters in
their official capacity. This exception to the gift definition does not authorize private
meals where the participants engage in discussion.
6. Food or beverage, consumed at a reception, meal, or meeting IF held by an organization and IF the
Board member is representing HCCS. Again, this exception does not authorize private meals where
the participants engage in discussion.
“Reception” means a social gathering. Receptions are often held for the purpose of extending a
ceremonial or formal welcome and may include private or public meetings during which guests are
honored or welcomed. Food and beverages are often provided, but not as a plated, sit-down meal;
7. Food or beverage consumed by Board member acting in an official capacity in the course of
financial transactions between the public body and another entity described in ORS
244.020(7)(b)(I)(i);
Board Member Ethics and Conflicts of Interest – BBFA
5-6

=== PAGE 22 ===
8. Waiver or discount of registration expenses or materials provided to Board member at a continuing
education event that the Board member may attend to satisfy a professional licensing requirement;
9. A gift received by the Board member as part of the usual or customary practice of the Board
member’s private business, employment or position as a volunteer that bears no relationship to the
Board member’s holding of public office.
Honoraria
A Board member may not solicit or receive, whether directly or indirectly, honoraria for the Board
member or any relative or member of the household of the Board member if the honoraria are solicited or
received in connection with the official duties of the Board member.
The honoraria rules do not prohibit the solicitation or receipt of an honorarium or a certificate, plaque,
commemorative token, or other item with a value of $50 or less; or the solicitation or receipt of an
honorarium for services performed in relation to the private profession, occupation, avocation, or expertise
of the Board member or candidate.
END OF POLICY
Legal Reference(s):
ORS 244.010 to -244.400 OAR 199-005-0001 to -199-010-0150
38 OR. ATTY. GEN. OP. 1995 (1978)
OR. ETHICS COMM’N, OR. GOV’T ETHICS LAW, A GUIDE FOR PUBLIC OFFICIALS.
Cross Reference(s):
BBF - Board Member Standards of Conduct
BBFB - Board Member Ethics and Nepotism
DJ - Purchasing
Board Member Ethics and Conflicts of Interest – BBFA
6-6

=== PAGE 23 ===
Code: BBFB
Adopted: 7/21/21
Board Member Ethics and Nepotism
In order to avoid both potential and actual conflicts of interests, Board members will abide by the
following rules when a Board member’s relative or member of the household is seeking and/or holds a
position with the HCCS:
1. A Board member may not appoint, employ, promote, discharge, fire, or demote or advocate for such
an employment decision for a relative or member of the household, unless the Board member
complies with the conflict of interest requirements of Oregon Revised Statute (ORS) Chapter 244.
This policy does not apply to decisions regarding unpaid volunteer positions unless it is a Board
member position or another Board-related unpaid volunteer position (i.e. a Board committee
position).
2. A Board member may not participate as a public official in any interview, discussion, or debate
regarding the appointment, employment, promotion, discharge, firing, or demotion of a relative or
member of the household. A Board member may still serve as a reference or provide a
recommendation.
For the purposes of this policy:
“Member of the household” means any person who resides with the Board member.
“Relative” means: the spouse1, parent, step-parent, child, sibling, step-sibling, son-in-law or daughter-in-
law of the Board member; or the parent, step-parent, child, sibling, step-sibling, son-in-law or daughter-in-
law of the spouse of the Board member. Relative also includes any individual for whom the Board member
has a legal support obligation, whose employment provides benefits2 to the Board member, or who
receives any benefit from the Board member’s public employment.
END OF POLICY
Legal Reference(s):
ORS 244.010 to -244.400 ORS 659A.309 OAR 199-005-0001 to -199-010-0150
OR. ETHICS COMM’N, OR. GOV’T ETHICS LAW, A GUIDE FOR PUBLIC OFFICIALS.
Cross Reference(s):
BBFA - Board Member Ethics and Conflicts of Interest
1 The term spouse includes domestic partner.
2 Examples of benefits may include, but not be limited to, elements of an official compensation package including benefits such
as insurance, tuition or retirement allotments.
Board Member Ethics and Nepotism – BBFB
1-1

=== PAGE 24 ===
Code: BBFC
Adopted: 7/21/21
Reporting of Suspected Abuse of a Child
A Board member is a mandatory reporter of child abuse. A Board member having reasonable cause to
believe that any child with whom the Board member comes in contact with has suffered abuse or that any
person with whom the Board member comes in contact with has abused a child shall immediately notify
the Oregon Department of Human Services (DHS) or local law enforcement pursuant to Oregon Revised
Statute (ORS) 419B.015.
The Board member making a report of child abuse, as required by ORS 419B.010, shall make an oral
report by telephone or otherwise to the local office of the Department of Human Services, to the designee
of the department or to a law enforcement agency within the county where the Board member making the
report is located at the time of the contact.
The report shall contain, if known: the names and addresses of the child and the parents of the child or
other persons responsible for the care of the child; the child’s age; the nature and extent of the abuse,
including any evidence of previous abuse; the explanation given for the abuse; and any other information
that the Board member making the report believes might be helpful in establishing the cause of the abuse
and the identity of the perpetrator.
END OF POLICY
Legal Reference(s):
ORS 338.115 ORS 419B.010 Senate Bill 415 (2019)
ORS 419B.005 ORS 419B.015
Cross Reference(s):
BBF - Board Member Standards of Conduct
Reporting of Suspected Abuse of a Child – BBFC
1-1

=== PAGE 25 ===
Code: BBF
Adopted: 7/21/21
Board Member Standards of Conduct
Individual HCCS Board members and the Board as a public entity, must comply with the ethics laws for
public officials.
Board members will treat other Board members, the administrator/principal, staff and the public with
dignity and courtesy and will provide an opportunity for all parties to be heard with due respect for their
opinions.
Board members will recognize the administrator/principal as the chief executive officer to whom the
Board has delegated administrative authority to establish regulations and oversee the implementation of
Board policy.
When a Board member expresses personal opinions in public, the Board member should clearly identify
the opinions as personal.
A Board member will respect the privacy rights of individuals when dealing with confidential information
gained through association with the HCCS.
A Board member will keep information and documents discussed in an executive session, confidential.
A Board member will not post confidential information or documents about students, staff or school
business online, including but not limited to, on social media.
Board members will treat fellow other Board members, staff, students and the public with respect while
posting online or to social media and will adhere to Oregon Public Meetings Laws, including when
communicating with other Board members via websites or other electronic means.
A HCCS Board member is a mandatory reporter of child abuse. A Board member having reasonable cause
to believe that any child with whom the Board member comes in contact with has suffered abuse or that
any person with whom the Board member comes in contact with has abused a child shall immediately
make an oral report by telephone or otherwise to the local Department of Human Services, to the designee
of the department or to a local law enforcement within the county where the person making the report is
located at the time of contact.
END OF POLICY
Board Member Standards of Conduct – BBF
1-2

=== PAGE 26 ===
Legal Reference(s):
ORS 192.610 - 192.710 ORS 419B.005 Senate Bill 415 (2019)
ORS Chapter 244 ORS 419B.010
ORS 338.115(2) ORS 419B.015
Cross Reference(s):
BBFA - Board Member Ethics and Conflicts of Interest
BBFC - Reporting of Suspected Abuse of a Child
GBI - Gifts and Solicitations
Board Member Standards of Conduct – BBF
2-2

=== PAGE 27 ===
Code: BD/BDA
Adopted: 7/21/21
Board Meetings
The HCCS Board has the authority to act only when a quorum is present at a duly called regular, special or
emergency meeting. “Meeting” means the convening of a quorum of the Board as the HCCS’s governing
body to make a decision or to deliberate toward a decision on any matter. This includes meeting for the
purpose of gathering information to serve as the basis for a subsequent decision or recommendation by the
governing body, i.e. a work session. The affirmative vote of a majority of those present is required to
transact any business.
All regular, special and emergency meetings of the Board will be open to the public except as provided by
law. All meetings will be conducted in compliance with state and federal statutes. All Board meetings,
including Board retreats and work sessions, will be held within the territory of the Beaverton School
District. The Board may attend training sessions outside these boundaries but cannot deliberate or discuss
HCCS business.1 No meeting will be held at any place where discrimination on the basis of disability,
race, creed, color, sex, sexual orientation2, age or national origin is practiced.
The Board will give public notice reasonably calculated to give actual notice to interested persons,
including those with disabilities, of the date, time and place for all Board meetings and of the principal
subjects to be considered. The Board may consider additional subjects at a meeting, even if they were not
included in the notice.
If requested to do so at least 48 hours before a meeting held in public, the Board shall make a good faith
effort to provide an interpreter for hearing-impaired persons. Other appropriate auxiliary aids and services
will be provided upon request and appropriate advance notice. Communications with all qualified
individuals with disabilities shall be as effective as communications with others.
All meetings held in public shall comply with the Oregon Indoor Clean Air Act and the smoking
provisions contained in the Public Meetings Law.
The possession of dangerous or deadly weapons and firearms, as defined in law and Board policy, is
prohibited on HCCS property.
1 ORS 192.630(4). Meetings of the governing body of a public body shall be held within the geographic boundaries over which
the public body has jurisdiction, or at the administrative headquarters of the public body or at the other nearest practical
location. Training sessions may be held outside the jurisdiction as long as no deliberations toward a decision are involved.
2 As defined in ORS 174.100.
Board Meetings – BD/BDA
1-3

=== PAGE 28 ===
1. Regular, Special and Emergency Meetings
Generally, a regular Board meeting will be held each month. The regular meeting schedule will be
established at the regular annual meeting held no later than July and may be changed by the Board
with proper notice. The purpose of each regular monthly meeting will be to conduct the regular
Board business.
At the regular annual meeting, the HCCS Board may elect Board officers according to HCCS
bylaws.
Special meetings can be convened by the Board chair or upon request of 20 percent of Board
members then in office. A special meeting may also be scheduled if less than a quorum is present at
a meeting or additional business still needs to be conducted at the ending time of the meeting. At
least 24 hours’ notice must be provided to all Board members in accordance with HCCS bylaws, the
news media, which have requested notice, and the general public for any special meeting.
Emergency meetings can be called by the Board in the case of an actual emergency upon appropriate
notice under the circumstances. The minutes of the emergency meeting must describe the
emergency. Only topics necessitated by the emergency may be discussed or acted upon at the
emergency meeting.
2. Communications Outside of Board Meetings
Communications, to, by and among a quorum of Board members outside of a legally called Board
meeting, in their capacity as Board members, shall not be used for the purpose of discussing HCCS
business. This includes electronic communication. Electronic communications among Board
members shall be limited to messages not involving deliberation, debate, decision-making or
gathering of information on which to deliberate.
Electronic communications may contain:
a. Agenda item suggestions;
b. Reminders regarding meeting times, dates and places;
c. Board meeting agendas or information concerning agenda items;
d. One-way information from Board members or the administrator/principal to each Board
member (e.g., an article on student achievement or to share a report on HCCS progress on
goals) so long as that information is being made available to the public;
e. Individual responses to questions posed by community members, subject to other limitations in
Board policy.
3. Private or Social Meetings
Private or social meetings of a quorum of the Board for the purpose of making a decision or to
deliberate toward a decision on any matter are prohibited by the Public Meetings Law.
4. Work Sessions
The Board may use regular or special meetings for the purpose of conducting work sessions to
provide its members with opportunities for planning and thoughtful discussion. Work sessions will
Board Meetings – BD/BDA
2-3

=== PAGE 29 ===
be conducted in accordance with the state law on public meetings, including notice and minutes. The
Board is discouraged from making official decisions during a work session.
5. Executive Sessions
Executive sessions may be held during regular, special or emergency meetings for a reason
permitted by law. (See Board policy BDC - Executive Sessions)
END OF POLICY
Legal Reference(s):
ORS 174.100 ORS Chapter 193 ORS 338.115(2)
ORS 174.104 ORS 255.335 ORS 433.835 to -433.875
ORS Chapter 192
38 OR. ATTY. GEN. OP. 1995 (1978)
41 OR. ATTY. GEN. OP. 28 (1980)
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101-12213; 29 C.F.R. Part 1630 (2006); 28 C.F.R. Part 35).
Americans with Disabilities Act Amendments Act of 2008.
OR. ATTY. GEN. Public Records and Meetings Manual (2014).
Cross Reference(s):
ACA - Americans with Disabilities Act
BDC - Executive Sessions
Board Meetings – BD/BDA
3-3

=== PAGE 30 ===
Code: BDC
Adopted: 7/21/21
Executive Sessions
The HCCS Board may meet in executive session to discuss subjects allowed by statute but may not take
final action except for the expulsion of a student and matters pertaining to or examination of the
confidential records of the student.
An executive session may be convened by order of the Board chair, upon request of 20 percent of HCCS
Board members then in office or by common consent of the Board for a purpose authorized under Oregon
Revised Statute (ORS) 192.660 during a regular, special or emergency meeting. The presiding officer will
announce the executive session by identifying the authorization under ORS 192.660 for holding such
session and by noting the subject of the executive session.
The Board may hold an executive session:
1. To consider the employment of a public officer, employee, staff member or individual agent.
(ORS 192.660(2)(a))
2. To consider the dismissal or disciplining of, or to hear complaints or charges brought against, a
public officer, employee, staff member or individual agent who does not request an open hearing.
(ORS 192.660(2)(b))
3. To conduct deliberations with persons designated by the governing body to carry on labor
negotiations. (ORS 192.660(2)(d))
4. To conduct deliberations with persons designated by the governing body to negotiate real property
transactions. (ORS 192.660(2)(e))
5. To consider information or records that are exempt by law from public inspection.
(ORS 192.660(2)(f))
6. To consult with counsel concerning the legal rights and duties of a public body with regard to
current litigation or litigation likely to be filed. (ORS 192.660(2)(h))
7. To review and evaluate the employment-related performance of the chief executive officer of any
public body, a public officer, employee or staff member who does not request an open hearing.
(ORS 192.660(2)(i))
8. To consider matters relating to school safety or a plan that responds to safety threats made toward a
school. (ORS 192.660(k))
Executive Sessions – BDC
1-2

=== PAGE 31 ===
9. To review the expulsion of a minor student from a public elementary or secondary school.
(ORS 332.061(1)(a))
10. To discuss matters pertaining to or examination of the confidential records of a student. (ORS
332.061(1)(b))
Members of the press may attend executive sessions except those matters pertaining to:
1. Deliberations with persons designated by the Board to carry on labor negotiations;
2. Hearings on the expulsion of a minor student or examination of the confidential records of a student;
and
3. Current litigation or litigation likely to be filed if the member of the news media is a party to the
litigation or is an employee, agent or contractor of a news media organization that is a party to the
litigation.
If an executive session is held pursuant to ORS 332.061, the following shall not be made public: the name
of the minor student; the issue, including the student’s confidential records; the discussion; and each Board
member’s vote on the issue.
Minutes shall be kept for all executive sessions.
Content discussed in executive sessions is confidential.
END OF POLICY
Legal Reference(s):
ORS 192.660 ORS 338.115
Cross Reference(s):
BD/BDA - Board Meetings
BDDG - Minutes of Board Meetings
CBG - Evaluation of the Administrator/Principal
Executive Sessions – BDC
2-2

=== PAGE 32 ===
Code: BDDC
Adopted: 7/21/21
Board Meeting Agenda
The Board chair, with the assistance of the administrator/principal, will prepare an agenda for all regular
meetings of the Board. Items of business may be suggested by any Board member, staff member, student
or person of the HCCS community by notifying the HCCS Board (board@hopeccs.org) at least seven
working days prior to the meeting.
A consent agenda may be used by the Board for noncontroversial business. The consent agenda will
consist of routine business that requires action but not necessarily discussion. These items may all be
approved at the same time. A Board member may ask that any item be removed from the consent agenda.
The removed item will then be placed on the regular agenda.
The agenda will follow a general order established by the Board. Opportunities for the audience to be
heard may be included on the agenda. The Board will follow the order of business set up by the agenda
unless the order is altered by a consensus of the Board.
Items of business not on the agenda may be discussed and acted upon if the majority of the Board agrees to
consider them.
The agenda, together with supporting materials, will be distributed by the HCCS office or
administrator/principal to Board members at least two full working days prior to the meeting. The agenda
will be available to the press and to interested patrons through the school office at the same time it is
available to the Board members. Copies of the agenda for the press and public will not contain any
confidential information included in the Board members’ packets.
A copy of the agenda will be posted on the school website on the day of the meeting. Members of the
public may request a copy of the agenda through the school office.
The HCCS will ensure equally effective communications are provided to qualified persons with
disabilities, upon request1, as required by the Americans with Disabilities Act. Auxiliary aids and services
for persons with disabilities will be available at no charge to the individual.
END OF POLICY
1 Appropriate auxiliary aids and services may include, but are not limited to, qualified interpreters, assistive listening systems,
note takers, large print, Braille materials, audio recordings and readers. Primary consideration will be given to the requests of
the person with a disability in the selection of the appropriate auxiliary aid and/or service. Should the Board demonstrate such
request would result in a fundamental alteration in the service, program or activity or an undue financial and administrative
burden, an alternate, equally effective communication will be used.
Board Meeting Agenda – BDDC
1-2

=== PAGE 33 ===
Legal Reference(s):
ORS 192.630 ORS 192.640
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101-12213; 29 C.F.R. Part 1630 (2006); 28 C.F.R. Part 35 (2006).
Americans with Disabilities Act Amendments Act of 2008.
Cross Reference(s):
BDDG - Minutes of Board Meetings
BDDH - Public Comment at Board Meetings
Board Meeting Agenda – BDDC
2-2

=== PAGE 34 ===
Code: BDDG
Adopted: 7/21/21
Minutes of Board Meetings
The HCCS Board secretary will take written minutes of all Board meetings. The written minutes will be a
true reflection of the matters discussed at the meeting and the views of the participants. The minutes will
include, but not be limited to, the following information:
1. All members of the Board who were present;
2. All motions, proposals, resolutions, orders and measures proposed and their disposition;
3. The results of all votes and the vote of each member by name;
4. The substance of any discussion on any matter;
5. Any other information required by law.
All minutes shall be available to the public within a reasonable time. The public and patrons of the HCCS
may receive, upon request, copies of minutes from the school office. A copy of the minutes of each regular
and special Board meeting as they are drafted for approval will be distributed after such meeting to each
Board member and administrator.
The HCCS will maintain a hard copy1 of the meeting minutes and make them available to staff and other
interested patrons.
Minutes of executive sessions will be kept in accordance with the requirements of Oregon’s Public
Meetings Law with essentially the same level of detail as for public sessions. If disclosure of material in
the executive session minutes would be inconsistent with the purpose for which executive session was held
under Oregon Revised Statute (ORS) 192.660, the material may be withheld from disclosure.
If an executive session is held pursuant to ORS 332.061, the following shall not be made public: the name
of a minor student; the issue, including a student’s confidential records; the discussion; and each Board
member’s vote on the issue.
END OF POLICY
Legal Reference(s):
ORS 192.610 - 192.710 ORS 338.115(2)
Letter Opinion, Office of the OR Attorney General (Nov. 20, 1970).
1 Oregon Administrative Rule 166-400-0010(9)
Minutes of Board Meetings – BDDG
1-1

=== PAGE 35 ===
Code: BDDH-AR
Revised/Reviewed: 7/21/21
Public Comment at Board Meetings
The Board requests that a public comment add information or a perspective that has not already been
mentioned previously, and that the patron refrains from repeating a similar point.
To make a comment or present a topic during public comment, if the opportunity is available on the Board
agenda, please complete the Intent to Speak card and submit it to the HCCS Board (board@hopeccs.org)
prior to the start of public comment. An individual that has submitted an Intent to Speak card and has been
invited to speak by the Board chair, will be allowed two minutes.
Any person, who is invited by the Board chair to speak to the Board during a meeting, should state their
name and, if speaking for an organization, the name of the organization. A spokesperson should be
designated to represent a group with a common purpose.
Please keep in mind that reference to a specific employee or group of employees, is prohibited as follows:
Board policy BDDH - Public Comment at Board Meetings:
“Comments Regarding Staff Members -
Speakers may offer objective criticism of school operations and programs. The Board will not hear
comments regarding any individual school staff member. The Board chair will direct the visitor to
the procedures in Board policy KL - Public Complaints for Board consideration of a legitimate
complaint involving a staff member. A commendation involving a staff member should be sent to
the administrator/principal.”
INTENT TO SPEAK
The Board welcomes your input. Please submit this completed card to the HCCS Board
(board@hopeccs.org) prior the start of public comment.
Name: Phone:
Address:
Email (optional):
Topic or comment to be presented (brief description):
A complaint brought before the Board shall be referred to the proper school authorities. A complaint shall
be processed in accordance with Board policy KL - Public Complaints and KL-AR - Public Complaints
Procedure. A hearing conducted before the Board regarding personnel shall take place in an executive
session.
The Board requests that a topic or comment is limited to two minutes or less.
Public Comment at Board Meetings – BDDH-AR
1-1

=== PAGE 36 ===
Code: BDDH
Adopted: 7/21/21
Public Comment at Board Meetings
All HCCS Board meetings, with the exception of executive sessions, will be open to the public. The Board
invites school community members to attend Board meetings to become acquainted with the program and
operation of the HCCS. Members of the public also are encouraged to share their ideas and opinions with
the Board when appropriate.
It is the intent of the HCCS Board to ensure communications with individuals with disabilities are as
effective as communications with others. Individuals with hearing, vision or speech impairments will be
given an equal opportunity to participate in Board meetings. Primary consideration will be given to
requests of qualified individuals with disabilities in selecting appropriate auxiliary aids1 and services.
Auxiliary aids and services for persons with disabilities will be available at no charge to the individual. All
auxiliary aids and/or service requests must be made with appropriate advance notice. Should the HCCS
Board demonstrate such requests would result in a fundamental alteration in the service, program or
activity or an undue financial and administrative burden, an alternative, equally effective means of
communication will be used.
Audience
During a session of a HCCS Board meeting open to the public, members of the public may be invited to
present comments during the designated portion of the agenda. At the discretion of the Board chair, further
public comment may be allowed.
Request for an Item on the Agenda
A member of the public may request the Board chair consider placing an item on the agenda of a regular
public charter board meeting. This request should be made in writing (may include email) and presented to
the Board chair for consideration at least seven working days prior to the scheduled meeting.
Procedures for Public Comment at Meetings
The HCCS Board will establish procedures for public comment in open meetings. The purpose of these
procedures will be to inform the public how to effectively participate in Board meetings for the best
interests of the individual, the school and the patrons. The information will be easily accessible and
available to all patrons attending a HCCS Board meeting.
1. Discussion or presentation concerning a published agenda item is limited to its designated place on
the agenda, unless otherwise authorized by the Board chair.
2. A visitor, when invited, speaking during the meeting may introduce a topic not on the published
agenda. The HCCS Board, at its discretion, may require that a proposal, inquiry or request be
1 “Auxiliary aids” may include, but are not limited to, such services and devices as qualified interpreters, assistive listening
systems, note takers, readers, taped texts, Brailed materials and large print.
Public Comment at Board Meetings – BDDH
1-2

=== PAGE 37 ===
submitted in writing, and reserves the right to refer the matter to the administrator/principal for
action or study.
3. Any person who is invited by the Board chair to speak to the Board during a meeting should state
their name and, if speaking for an organization, the name and identity of the organization. A
spokesperson should be designated to represent a group with a common purpose.
4. Statements by members of the public should be brief and concise. The Board chair may use
discretion to establish a time limit on discussion or oral presentation by visitors.
5. Questions asked by the public, when time provided, may be answered by the Board chair or referred
to the administrator/principal for reply. Questions requiring investigation may, at the discretion of
the Board chair, be referred to the administrator/principal for a response at a later time.
6. At the discretion of the HCCS Board chair, anyone wishing to speak before the Board, either as an
individual or as a member of a group, on any agenda item or other topic, may do so by providing the
HCCS Board secretary with a completed registration card or sign-in sheet, prior to the Board
meeting in order to allow the chair to provide adequate time for each agenda item.
Petitions
Petitions may be accepted at any HCCS Board meeting. No action will be taken in response to a petition
before the next regular meeting. Petitions will be referred to the administrator/principal for consideration
and recommendation if necessary.
Comments Regarding Staff Members
Speakers may offer objective criticism of HCCS operations and programs. The Board will not hear
comments regarding any individual HCCS staff member. The Board chair will direct the visitor to the
procedures in Board policy KL - Public Complaints for Board consideration of a legitimate complaint
involving a staff member. A commendation involving a staff member should be sent to the
administrator/principal.
END OF POLICY
Legal Reference(s):
ORS 192.610 to -192.690 ORS 338.115(2)
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101-12213 (2012); 29 C.F.R. Part 1630 (2017); 28 C.F.R. Part 35
(2017).
Americans with Disabilities Act Amendments Act of 2008.
Baca v. Moreno Valley Unified Sch. Dist., 936 F. Supp. 719 (C.D. Cal. 1996).
Leventhal v. Vista Unified Sch. Dist., 973 F. Supp. 951 (S.D. Cal. 1997).
Cross Reference(s):
BDDC - Board Meeting Agenda
Public Comment at Board Meetings – BDDH
2-2

=== PAGE 38 ===
Code: BDD
Adopted: 7/21/21
Board Meeting Procedures
1. Quorum
A quorum will consist of the majority of the Board members.
2. Vote Needed for Exercise of Powers
The affirmative vote of a majority of Board members present will be necessary for exercising any of
the Board’s powers.
3. Board Member Voting
Each member’s vote on all motions will be recorded in the minutes.
4. Abstaining from Vote
If a Board member chooses to abstain from voting, and the abstention is due to a conflict of interest,
the Board members will state the reason for the abstention and such abstention will be recorded.
5. Parliamentary Procedure
Official Board business will be transacted by motion or resolution at duly called regular or special
meetings.
Except as otherwise provided by state law and/or Board policy, the rules of parliamentary procedure
comprised in Robert’s Rules of Order Newly Revised, “Procedure in Small Boards” as modified by
the Board will govern the Board in its deliberation.
The Board chair will decide all questions relative to points of order, subject to an appeal to the
Board.
END OF POLICY
Legal Reference(s):
ORS 192.650 ORS 244.120(2) ORS 338.115(2)
38 OR. ATTY. GEN. OP. 1995 (1978)
41 OR. ATTY. GEN. OP. 28 (1980)
Board Meeting Procedures – BDD
1-1

=== PAGE 39 ===
Code: BFCA
Adopted: 7/21/21
Administrative Regulations (AR)
Administrative regulations are detailed directions governing the operation of the HCCS.
The administrator/principal or designee is authorized to formulate such administrative regulations
appropriate for the implementation of policies adopted by the Board and necessary for the consistent
operation of the HCCS.
When approved by the administrator/principal, administrative regulations shall be distributed to the Board
and the staff as appropriate.
The Board may review any administrative regulation and may direct its revision if, in the Board’s
judgment, such administrative regulation is not consistent with adopted board policies.
END OF POLICY
Legal Reference(s):
ORS 338.115(2)
Administrative Regulations (AR) – BFCA
1-1

=== PAGE 40 ===
Code: BFC
Adopted: 7/21/21
Adoption and Revision of Policies
Board policies will be subject to alteration, addition or deletion upon majority vote of the Board at any
regular or special meeting in which all members have been notified in writing of the proposed alteration,
addition or deletion at least 24 hours in advance. In most cases, a first reading of the policy will be
scheduled on a regular meeting agenda prior to its adoption at a subsequent regular or special meeting.
The formal adoption of policies will be recorded in the Board minutes. Only those written statements so
adopted and so recorded will be regarded as official Board policy.
When additions, deletions or amendments are made to Board policy, the addition, deletion or amendment
will carry the adoption date and the corrected copy will be published at the earliest opportunity.
To permit time for studying new policies or amendments to policies and to provide an opportunity for
interested parties to react, proposed policies or amendments may be presented as a Board agenda item in
the following sequence:
1. First reading of a proposed policy (or policies): This is an information item and no action is required
by the Board. A first reading announces that a new policy, a revision of an existing policy or
consideration to rescind a policy, is being considered by the Board. Comments, questions, concerns
and recommended edits should be forwarded to the administrator/principal or designee for
consideration prior to the meeting in which the policy is recommended for a second reading and/or
adoption.
2. Second reading/Adoption of a proposed policy (or policies): This is an action by the Board and may
be placed on the consent agenda. Any revisions to a policy from the first reading will not require the
policy go through an additional reading, except as the Board determines that the revision(s) need(s)
further study and an additional reading would be advantageous.
When, in the best interest of HCCS, immediate adoption of a proposed policy is necessary, the Board may
adopt such policy at the first meeting in which it is presented.
The operation of any single policy, section or sections of policies not established by law may be
temporarily suspended by a majority vote of the Board member’s present at a regular or special meeting.
The policy manual will be regularly reviewed to keep it current.
END OF POLICY
Legal Reference(s):
ORS 338.115(2)
Adoption and Revision of Policies – BFC
1-1

=== PAGE 41 ===
Code: BHD
Adopted: 7/21/21
Board Member Compensation and Expense Reimbursement
No Board member will receive any compensation for services other than reimbursement for approved
expenses actually incurred on HCCS business. Such expenses may include the cost of attendance at
meetings, conferences or visitations when such attendance has been approved by the Board.
END OF POLICY
Legal Reference(s):
ORS 244.020 ORS 332.018(3)
ORS 244.040 ORS 338.115(2)
OR. GOV’T STANDARDS AND PRACTICES COMM’N, STAFF OPINION 02S-015 (May 20, 2002).
OR. GOV’T STANDARDS AND PRACTICES COMM’N, STAFF OPINION 03S-015 (Sept. 11, 2003).
Cross Reference(s):
BBAA - Individual Board Member’s Authority and Responsibilities
DLC - Expense and Tuition Reimbursements
Board Member Compensation and Expense Reimbursement – BHD
1-1

=== PAGE 42 ===
Code: BHE
Adopted: 7/21/21
Board Member Liability Insurance
HCCS will purchase liability insurance and errors-and-omissionsinsurance to protect its school board
members individually and collectively from claims made against them as a result of official Board actions
taken in the course of official duties.
END OF POLICY
Legal Reference(s):
ORS 30.260 to -30.300 ORS 338.115(2)
Board Member Liability Insurance – BHE
1-1

